# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-05-05
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Event discussion
    * Virtual Presto meetup results
    * PrestoCon plans
* Review/vote on [PR 43](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/43)
* Review/vote on [PR 46](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/46)
* TSC Monthly Cadence


### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)


#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook) 
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana)

#### Not present
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Pelee (PAO)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Vineeth Karayil Sekharan
* Vivek Bharathan

### Action Items
1. Brian will send a vote over email for PR #43
2. Brian will send a vote over email for PR #46
3. Gale will update the meeting invite to meet on a monthly cadence. 

### Discussion Items
#### Event discussion
* Virtual Presto meetup results
* PrestoCon plans

Nezih introduced the topic of the meetup on 2020-04-24, and plans for PrestoCon. Amit shared an update from the Presto meetup. Three speakers from Facebook and Uber presented on three different topics. The existing meetup group was used to promote the event. One hundred fifty people signed up for the meetup, and 108 attended. The outreach committee intends to continue planning virtual events, and will be making a call to action to the TSC for two speakers for the next event. 

Amit also shared that PrestoCon was planned to occur this year as a kickoff event for the Foundation, but this event was cancelled due to current events. Per the new guidelines members are receiving from their companies, PrestoCon does not look feasible for 2020. The Outreach Committee is working with the Linux Foundation events team, and is exploring an online platform for a virtual PrestoCon event in July or in September. 

#### Review/vote on [PR 43](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/43)
Nezih introduced the topic of PR #43. Brian provided context on PR 43, these include the addition of guidance for quorum and TSC elections. These have been discussed in previous TSC meetings, and it is proposed that these be put to vote. Discussion ensued regarding TSC candidacy guidelines and election procedures. It was decided to hold the vote for PR #43 over email. Brian took an action to facilitate the email vote on PR #43. 

#### Review/vote on [PR 46](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/46)
Brian introduced the topic of PR #46, and provided context for the details of this PR which include guidelines for contributions, voting policies, copyright notices etc. It was decided to hold the vote for PR #46 over email. Brian took an action to facilitate the email vote on PR #46. 

#### TSC Monthly Cadence
Nezih introduced the topic of the monthly cadence. Gale noted that it was previously discussed that the TSC meeting cadence would at a point of maturity transition from a bi-weekly cadence to a monthly cadence. Consensus was reached that the meetings would move to a monthly cadence. Gale took an action item to update the invite series to occur monthly. 

#### Open Discussion
Zhenxiao noted that it would be helpful to update and clarify Committer guidelines. Nezih proposed that Zhenxiao add these items as a comment to PR #46 for follow-up discussion. 
Dipti introduced herself as a new member of Presto Foundation from Ahana. Dipti previously led the Outreach Committee as a part of Alluxio, and is now representing Ahana. 
