# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-10-06
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Committer/TSC member separation (Nezih Yigitbasi)
* Update on outreach (Dipti Borkar) 
* Discussion of role of architects in Presto (Dipti Borkar)

### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)

#### Attendees
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook) 
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana)
* David Simmen (Ahana)
* Steven Mih (Ahana)

### Discussion Items
#### Committer/TSC member separation (Nezih Yigitbasi)
Nezih introduced the topic of separating the roles of committers and TSC members, and provided an explanation of the role distinctions. Nezih shared that in this framework, the committers would be responsible for maintaining the technical aspects of the project and TSC members would be responsible for general oversight. 

#### Discussion of role of architects in Presto (Dipti Borkar)
Dipti introduced discussion of the architect role, and shared that there is interest from the community to develop an architect role. During the recent PrestoCon event, there was a spike in interest in contributing to the project. Discussion ensued regarding the architect role. 

#### Outreach/Community Update (Dipti Borkar)
Dipti introduced the update from the outreach committee and community, and shared an update from PrestoCon. There were nearly 650 registrations and a peak of 200 simultaneous attendees. Dipti shared that all session recordings are available on the Presto youtube channel. The community had positive feedback and high interest in: disaggregated coordinator, native engine, apache ranger plugin, and presto router. Dipti shared that multiple routers were shared, and it may be beneficial for the community to consolidate routers. Nezih also shared that heâ€™s received positive feedback from PrestoCon, and that community members were pleased to see and hear long term plans for presto and that the focus was not just on features. 

#### Presto/Alluxio Collaboration (Bin Fan)
Bin introduced an update that Alluxio has been collaborating with the Facebook members of Presto, and shared what has been achieved so far and the plan moving forward. Bin shared that Alluxio and Facebook members are working together to develop hive connector caching, and deployed a joint solution at Facebook. James shared that the solution they developed together has brought a 10x improvement and also deprecated Raptor, and has been a big win for the Facebook team. Bin shared that their collaboration includes plans to optimize integration for hive connector including table quota at Presto and TTL support. 
