# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2021-09-14
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Discuss renaming the default branch from master to main so we are not contributing to offensive and non-inclusive treatment of some groups of people. 
* Discuss TSC charter updates.
* Discuss constraints work by David Simmen.

### Attendance
#### Voting members


#### Attendees

* Tim Meehan (FB)
* David Simmen (Ahana)
* Adit Pandit (Ahana)
* Beinan Wang (Alluvia)
* Chen Liang (Uber)
* George (Ahana)
* Kamil Bajda-Pawlikowski (Starburst)
* Rohan Pednekar (Ahana)
* Rongrong Zhong (FB)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* Zhan Yuang (FB)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana)
* Deepak Majeti (Ahana)
* James Sun (FB) 

#### Not present

### Action Items
1. Create an issue to discuss inclusive terminology in Presto's codebase


### Discussion Items

* Discussed branch rename
    * Should we announce on Slack channel?
        * Need to announce in #dev
        * Could affect everyone.
        * Announce this proposal the mailing list.
        * Announce in Slack, presto-tsc mailing list.
        * Might be worthwhile to do a short blog.  Heads up around a date.
        * Github issue on the branch rename.
        * Sounds good.
    * Action item for TSC updates
        * Need to send an email
* David proceeded to explain the motivation and details behind constraints.  It was based on the slides found in [files/2021-09-14](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/meetings/files/2021-09-14/constraints.pptx).