# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2021-08-03
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* H2 planning update
* Discussion: Separating presto-connectors and presto-core into separate repos?

### Attendance
#### Voting members


#### Attendees

* Dave Lester (US Bank)
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)
* Beinan Wang (Alluxio)
* George Wang (Ahana)
* Kamil (Starburst)
* Rongrong (FB)
* Rohan (Ahana)
* Ariel (Facebook)
* Vivek (Ahana)

#### Not present

### Action Items
1. Rongrong to send out an email to continue the connector repo sep discussion.

### Discussion Items

#### 2021 Open Source Planning

Tim talked about how to find the Github Milestones and thanked the community for collaborating on it.

#### Connector separation

Rongrong began by explaining that some connectors do not have committers who own the connector.  This is a way to separate them out.

When we do a release for Presto, we run test suites.  Most of the time the connectors are not tested or updated.  Having to finish those tests blocked on the release, and making Presto core really large, makes Presto inconvenient.

We don’t acknowledge who the real owners are.  From Facebook’s perspective, we run master directly, so having to have our production also depend on the release of these seems a bit weird.

Tim mentioned that this is a way to give domain experts for a connector the rights to maintain the connector independently.

Tim also mentioned that this may make it harder to keep the connector up to date.

Beinan asked how we do the release.  Would it be like airlift?

Rongrong pointed out that this would require discussion.  It would require work.  Whenever we do have a release, SPI update, then we should do a new release.  We still need to create new releases whenever there is an SPI update.  We can choose to do an auto release whenever presto core is released.  Different from airlift because the order of dependencies is different.

Tim mentioned that we would probably end up aggregating these connectors in a Maven module.  Versions would end up being out of date (which is fine).

George asked would we separate out all connectors, or just some?

Tim mentioned that it makes sense to keep JMX and system connectors internal and not separated out.

Rongrong mentioned that it’s not clear where to cut the line.  There are other connectors that don’t live in the Presto repo.  It may make it easier to onboard new connectors.

Tim asked if it makes sense to start with new connectors and see how things like release work.  If it’s successful, then we can move to existing connectors.

Rongrong says it makes sense to send out an email to propose this.
